feat: Release 1.17 (#166)
cdr/docs: admin/workspace-providers/deployment.md

---
title: Deployment
description: Learn how to deploy a workspace provider.
state: beta
---

This article walks you through the process of deploying a workspace provider to
a [Kubernetes cluster](../../setup/kubernetes/index.md).

[Workspace Providers](index.md) are logical groups of resources to which
developers can deploy workspaces. Like the Coder deployment, workspace providers
are deployed via a helm chart to the Kubernetes cluster where you'd like to
provision new workspaces.

## Dependencies

Install the following dependencies if you haven't already:

- [Coder CLI](../../cli/installation.md)
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

## Requirements

1. Workspace providers **must have a hostname set** that is a subdomain of the
   Coder deployment. For example, if the Coder deployment's hostname is
   `coder.example.com`, the workspace provider's hostname must match the format
   `*.coder.example.com`.

> 2. The main Coder deployment and the workspace provider must be able to

Author: ```suggestion
1. The main Coder deployment and the workspace provider must be able to
```

   communicate bi-directionally via their respective hostnames.

> 3. The Kubernetes cluster address must be reachable from the Coder deployment.

Author: ```suggestion
1. The Kubernetes cluster address must be reachable from the Coder deployment.
```

## Connecting to the Cluster

To add a Kubernetes cluster as a workspace provider, you must first make sure

> that you're connected to the cluster you want to expand into

Author: ```suggestion
that you're connected to the cluster you want to expand into. Run the following
command:
```

```bash
kubectl config current-context
```

Confirm that your current kubectl context correct before continuing; otherwise,
connect to the correct context.

## Creating the Coder Namespace (Optional)

We recommend running workspace providers in a separate
[namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/);
to do so, run

```bash
kubectl create namespace coder
```

Next, change the kubectl context to point to your newly created namespace:

```bash
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=coder
```

## Creating the New Workspace Provider

Using the Coder CLI, create a new workspace provider in the `pending` state.

```bash
coder providers create [NAME] \
    --hostname=[HOSTNAME] \

>     --clusterAddress=[CLUSTER_ADDRESS]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --cluster-address=[CLUSTER_ADDRESS]
```

The argument is hyphenated as-of https://github.com/cdr/coder-cli/releases/tag/v1.17.0-rc.1

   ```

1. Install the helm chart onto your cluster using helm command you generated in
   the previous step where you created the workspace provider. The helm command
   will follow this pattern:

   ```bash
   helm upgrade coder-workspace-provider coder/workspace-provider \
      --version=[CODER_VERSION] \
      --atomic \
      --install \
      --force \
      --set envproxy.token=[REMOTE_ENVPROXY_TOKEN] \
      --set ingress.host=[HOSTNAME] \
      --set envproxy.clusterAddress=[CLUSTER_ADDRESS] \
      --set cemanager.accessURL=[CEMANAGER_ACCESS_URL]
   ```

   Optionally, you can provide additional helm configuration values by providing
   a `values.yaml` file and adding the argument `-f my-values.yaml` to the
   generated command. Helm values control attributes of the workspace provider,
   including DevURLs, Kubernetes storage classes, SSH, and more. See the
   [Workspace Provider Helm Chart
   Values]("https://github.com/cdr/enterprise-helm/blob/workspace-providers-envproxy-only/README.md")
   for more details.

   If you're unfamiliar with the helm configuration values file, see our doc on
   [updating a helm chart](../../guides/helm-charts.md)

> 2. Once the helm chart is successfully deployed, fetch the ingress address:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Once the helm chart is successfully deployed, fetch the ingress address:
```

   ```bash
   kubectl get ingress web-ingress
   ```

   Use this IP to create a DNS record for the provided hostname of the workspace
   provider.

> 3. Once the Helm chart has deployed successfully, you should see the workspace

Author: ```suggestion
1. Once the Helm chart has deployed successfully, you should see the workspace
```

   provider in a `ready` state on the Workspace Provider Admin page.

   ![Workspace Providers Admin](../../assets/workspace-providers-admin.png)

> 4. From the Workspace Provider Admin page, add the desired organizations to its

Author: ```suggestion
1. From the Workspace Provider Admin page, add the desired organizations to its
```

- [Coder CLI](../../cli/installation.md)
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)

## Requirements

1. Workspace providers **must have a hostname set** that is a subdomain of the
   Coder deployment. For example, if the Coder deployment's hostname is
   `coder.example.com`, the workspace provider's hostname must match the format
   `*.coder.example.com`.
1. The main Coder deployment and the workspace provider must be able to
   communicate bi-directionally via their respective hostnames.
1. The Kubernetes cluster address must be reachable from the Coder deployment.

## Connecting to the Cluster

To add a Kubernetes cluster as a workspace provider, you must first make sure
that you're connected to the cluster you want to expand into. Run the following
command:

```bash
kubectl config current-context
```

Confirm that your current kubectl context correct before continuing; otherwise,
connect to the correct context.

## Creating the Coder Namespace (Optional)

We recommend running workspace providers in a separate
[namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/);

> to do so, run

Author: ```suggestion
to do so, run:
```

```bash
kubectl create namespace coder
```

Next, change the kubectl context to point to your newly created namespace:

```bash

> kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=coder

Reviewer 2: we should just opt for supplying `--namespace` to helm instead

Author: cc @f0ssel , @mterhar

Reviewer 3: I disagree, this is in line with how we say to install coder normally, and the namespace for WSP will probably not be always be coder and having it at every step means they have to edit every step themselves.

Reviewer 4: The problem with using "current context" like this is that it becomes a kind of ambient parameter, kind of like global variables: it's something that affects various steps, but not obviously so. It also makes it very easy to accidentally deploy things into the wrong namespace (c.f. our own Kubernetes clusters, where people frequently deploy their personal stuff into the coder-ci or preview clusters, for example)

I also understand, though, that we don't want to have people modify every command they're copying. So as a longer-term approach, I would propose that we provide install scripts rather than ask admins to copy and paste commands out of a guide like this, though I acknowledge that's outside the scope of this current release.

```

## Creating the New Workspace Provider

Using the Coder CLI, create a new workspace provider in the `pending` state.

```bash
coder providers create [NAME] \
    --hostname=[HOSTNAME] \
    --cluster-address=[CLUSTER_ADDRESS]
```

You must provide the following arguments:

- `name`: A unique name of the workspace provider
- `hostname`: Hostname of the workspace provider
- `cluster-address`: The address of the Kubernetes cluster apiserver. This can be
  retrieved using

  ```bash
  kubectl config view -o jsonpath='{.clusters[?(@.name == "'"$(kubectl config current-context)"'")].cluster.server}{"\n"}'
  ```

The `coder providers create` command will generate a helm command you will use
for the next steps, so make sure to save the output.

The returned `REMOTE_ENVPROXY_TOKEN` is a shared secret between the two
deployments and is what the workspace provider will use to authenticate itself
when communicating with the Coder deployment.

## Installing Workspace Provider

> 1. If you haven't already, add the Coder helm repo

Author: ```suggestion
1. If you haven't already, add the Coder helm repo:
```

---

> title: Deployment

Reviewer 5: For discoverability (especially with SEO) we should probably change this to "Workspace Provider Deployment"

## Connecting to the Cluster

To add a Kubernetes cluster as a workspace provider, you must first make sure
that you're connected to the cluster you want to expand into. Run the following
command:

```bash
kubectl config current-context
```

Confirm that your current kubectl context correct before continuing; otherwise,
connect to the correct context.

## Creating the Coder Namespace (Optional)

We recommend running workspace providers in a separate
[namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/);
to do so, run:

```bash
kubectl create namespace coder
```

Next, change the kubectl context to point to your newly created namespace:

```bash
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=coder
```

## Creating the New Workspace Provider

Using the Coder CLI, create a new workspace provider in the `pending` state.

```bash
coder providers create [NAME] \
    --hostname=[HOSTNAME] \
    --clusterAddress=[CLUSTER_ADDRESS]
```

You must provide the following arguments:

- `name`: A unique name of the workspace provider
- `hostname`: The hostname of the workspace provider

> - `clusterAddress`: The address of your Kubernetes cluster. You can retrieve this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `cluster-address`: The address of your Kubernetes cluster. You can retrieve this
```

There's a related suggestion above from Mike

Reviewer 6: I think this suggestion was originally added then undone. [Confirmed again](https://github.com/cdr/coder-cli/commit/f34aafe57e79f7006ba8dc6e8bf6cb90bc9c8303#diff-7da9dc66d57a11a014bd5c611c39deab6ab38dc49dcc91d35011ef9d20457de0) it's hyphenated, so will be making this change.

Author: Can blame me for that - I misread Jonathan and Colin's thread. Sorry everyone

Reviewer 6: @vapurrmaid no worries -- all is well!

  using:

  ```bash
  kubectl config view -o jsonpath='{.clusters[?(@.name == "'"$(kubectl config current-context)"'")].cluster.server}{"\n"}'
  ```

The `coder providers create` command will generate a Helm command you will use
for the next steps, so make sure to save the output.

The returned `REMOTE_ENVPROXY_TOKEN` is a shared secret between the two
deployments and is what the workspace provider will use to authenticate itself
when communicating with the Coder deployment.

> ## Installing Workspace Provider

Reviewer 5: "Installing a Workspace Provider"

---
title: Deployment
description: Learn how to deploy a workspace provider.
state: beta
---

This article walks you through the process of deploying a workspace provider to
a [Kubernetes cluster](../../setup/kubernetes/index.md).

[Workspace Providers](index.md) are logical groups of resources to which

> developers can deploy environments. Like the Coder deployment, workspace providers

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
developers can deploy environments. As with the Coder installation, Helm manages the deployment of workspace providers into the Kubernetes cluster that will contain your environments.
```

are deployed via a helm chart to the Kubernetes cluster where you'd like to
provision new environments.

## Dependencies

Install the following dependencies if you haven't already:

- [Coder CLI](../../cli/installation.md)

> - [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
```

## Connecting to the Cluster

To add a Kubernetes cluster as a workspace provider, you must first make sure
that you're connected to the cluster you want to expand into. Run the following
command:

```bash
kubectl config current-context
```

Confirm that your current kubectl context correct before continuing; otherwise,
connect to the correct context.

## Creating the Coder Namespace (Optional)

We recommend running workspace providers in a separate
[namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/);
to do so, run:

```bash
kubectl create namespace coder
```

Next, change the kubectl context to point to your newly created namespace:

```bash
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=coder
```

## Creating the New Workspace Provider

Using the Coder CLI, create a new workspace provider in the `pending` state.

```bash
coder providers create [NAME] \
    --hostname=[HOSTNAME] \
    --cluster-address=[CLUSTER_ADDRESS]
```

You must provide the following arguments:

- `name`: A unique name of the workspace provider
- `hostname`: The hostname of the workspace provider

> - `cluster-address`: The address of the Kubernetes cluster apiserver. This can be

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `cluster-address`: The address of your Kubernetes cluster. You can retrieve this using:
```

Not sure the API Server is a useful distinction for those less familiar with Kubernetes, and people that do know the internals of Kubernetes to that degree will understand that the API server is the primary way we interact with it

  retrieved using

  ```bash
  kubectl config view -o jsonpath='{.clusters[?(@.name == "'"$(kubectl config current-context)"'")].cluster.server}{"\n"}'
  ```

> The `coder providers create` command will generate a helm command you will use

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `coder providers create` command will generate a Helm command you will use
```

   `*.coder.example.com`.
1. The main Coder deployment and the workspace provider must be able to
   communicate bi-directionally via their respective hostnames.

> 1. The workspace provider http protocol must match the protocol of the Coder

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. The workspace provider scheme (HTTP or HTTPS) must match that of the Coder
```

You must provide the following arguments:

> - `name`: A unique name of the workspace provider

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `name`: A unique name of the workspace provider.
```

for consistency with the full stop on the following line

      --install \

>       --force \

Reviewer 4: since we no longer use `--force` internally, should we remove here too? maybe @sreya has an opinion on that

Reviewer 7: Yep, should remove `--force` from all docs. @bpmct removed a couple here already https://github.com/cdr/docs/pull/171

      --set envproxy.token=[REMOTE_ENVPROXY_TOKEN] \
      --set envproxy.accessURL=[HOSTNAME] \
      --set ingress.host=[HOSTNAME_WITH_NO_PROTOCOL] \

>       --set envproxy.cluster-address=[CLUSTER_ADDRESS] \

Reviewer 4: observation: we sometimes use hyphens and sometimes use camelCase (e.g. accessURL)

Reviewer 7: It's supposed to be `clusterAddress` it seems: https://github.com/cdr/enterprise-helm/blob/master/values.yaml#L185

Author: Should we change this, then?

>       --set envproxy.cluster-address=[CLUSTER_ADDRESS] \

Reviewer 4: observation: we sometimes use hyphens and sometimes use camelCase (e.g. accessURL)

   Values]("https://github.com/cdr/enterprise-helm/blob/workspace-providers-envproxy-only/README.md")
   for more details.

>    > **NOTE**: If the hostname provided is using https you must ensure the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For installations using HTTPS, you must [ensure the deployment has a valid certificate](../../guides/ssl-certificates/index.md).
```

This is shorter and allows us to drop the SSL acronym. I still think it's a shame that we're still (as an industry) using the long-outdated acronym SSL rather than its accessor, TLS, but I digress :man_shrugging:
